# Section 16309

- (a) The statement of partnership authority may designate an agent for service of process. The agent may be an individual residing in this state or a corporation that has complied with Section 1505 and whose capacity to act as an agent has not terminated. If an individual is designated, the statement shall include that person’s complete business or residence street address in this state. If a corporate agent is designated, no address for that agent shall be set forth.

- (b) An agent designated for service of process may deliver to the Secretary of State, on a form prescribed by the Secretary of State for filing, a signed and acknowledged written statement of resignation as an agent for service of process containing the name of the partnership and the Secretary of State’s file number of the partnership. On filing of the statement of resignation, the authority of the agent to act in that capacity shall cease and the Secretary of State shall mail or otherwise provide written notice of the filing of the statement of resignation to the partnership at its principal executive office.

- (c) The resignation of an agent may be effective if, on a form prescribed by the Secretary of State containing the name of the partnership and the Secretary of State’s file number for the partnership and the name of the agent for service of process, the agent disclaims having been properly appointed as the agent.

- (d) If an individual who has been designated agent for service of process dies or resigns or no longer resides in the state, or if the corporate agent for that purpose resigns, dissolves, withdraws from the state, forfeits its right to transact intrastate business, has its corporate rights, powers, and privileges suspended, or ceases to exist, the partnership or foreign partnership shall promptly file an amended statement of partnership authority, designating a new agent.

- (e) The Secretary of State may destroy or otherwise dispose of any statement of resignation filed pursuant to this section after a new statement of partnership authority is filed pursuant to Section 16303 replacing the agent for service of process that has resigned.