# Section 16905

- (a) The conversion of a partnership into a foreign other business entity shall comply with Section 16902.

- (b) If the partnership is converting into a foreign other business entity, then the conversion proceedings shall be in accordance with the laws of the state or place of organization of the foreign other business entity and the conversion shall become effective in accordance with that law.

- (c) 

  - (1) Unless a statement of conversion has been filed to effect the conversion, the converted foreign other business entity shall promptly notify the Secretary of State of the mailing address of its agent for service of process, its chief executive office, and of any change of address. To enforce an obligation of a partnership that has converted to a foreign other business entity, the Secretary of State shall only be the agent for service of process in an action or proceeding against the converted foreign other business entity, if the agent designated for the service of process for that entity is a natural person and cannot be found with due diligence or if the agent is a corporation and no person, to whom delivery may be made, may be located with due diligence, or if no agent has been designated and if no one of the officers, partners, managers, members, or agents of that entity may be located after diligent search, and it is so shown by affidavit to the satisfaction of the court. The court then may make an order that service be made by personal delivery to the Secretary of State or to an assistant or deputy Secretary of State of two copies of the process together with two copies of the order, and the order shall set forth an address to which the process shall be sent by the Secretary of State. Service in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th day after delivery of the process to the Secretary of State.

  - (2) Upon receipt of the process and order and the fee set forth in Section 12197 of the Government Code, the Secretary of State shall provide notice to the entity of the service of the process by forwarding by certified mail, return receipt requested, a copy of the process and order to the address specified in the order.

  - (3) The Secretary of State shall keep a record of all process served upon the Secretary of State and shall record therein the time of service and the Secretary of State’s action with respect thereto. The certificate of the Secretary of State, under the Secretary of State’s official seal, certifying to the receipt of process, the providing of notice thereof to the entity, and the forwarding of the process, shall be competent and prima facie evidence of the matters stated therein.